# Bluetooth Baseline Requirements Policy

**Last Update Status:** *Updated August 2020*

## Overview

Bluetooth enabled devices are exploding on the Internet at an
astonishing rate. At the range of connectivity has increased
substantially. Insecure Bluetooth connections can introduce a number of
potential serious security issues. Hence, there is a need for a minimum
standard for connecting Bluetooth enable devices.

## Purpose

The purpose of this policy is to provide a minimum baseline standard for
connecting Bluetooth enabled devices to the MailRoute network or
MailRoute owned devices. The intent of the minimum standard is to
ensure sufficient protection Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
and confidential MailRoute data.

## Scope

This policy applies to any Bluetooth enabled device that is connected to
MailRoute network or owned devices.

## Policy

1. Version

    No Bluetooth Device shall be deployed on MailRoute equipment that
does not meet a minimum of Bluetooth v2.1 specifications without written
authorization from the Infosec Team. Any Bluetooth equipment purchased
prior to this policy must comply with all parts of this policy except
the Bluetooth version specifications.

1. Pins and Pairing

    When pairing your Bluetooth unit to your Bluetooth enabled equipment
(i.e. phone, laptop, etc.), ensure that you are not in a public area
where you PIN can be compromised.

    If your Bluetooth enabled equipment asks for you to enter your pin after
you have initially paired it, you must refuse the pairing request and
report it to Infosec, through your Help Desk, immediately.

1. Device Security Settings

    -   All Bluetooth devices shall employ 'security mode 3' which encrypts
    traffic in both directions, between your Bluetooth Device and its
    paired equipment.

    -   Use a minimum PIN length of 8. A longer PIN provides more security.

    -   Switch the Bluetooth device to use the hidden mode
    (non-discoverable)

    -   Only activate Bluetooth only when it is needed.

    -   Ensure device firmware is up-to-date.

1. Security Audits

    The Infosec Team may perform random audits to ensure compliancy with
this policy. In the process of performing such audits, Infosec Team
members shall not eavesdrop on any phone conversation.

1. Unauthorized Use

    The following is a list of unauthorized uses of MailRoute-owned
Bluetooth devices:

    -   Eavesdropping, device ID spoofing, DoS attacks, or any form of
    attacking other Bluetooth enabled devices.

    -   Using MailRoute-owned Bluetooth equipment on non-MailRoute-owned Bluetooth enabled devices.

    -   Unauthorized modification of Bluetooth devices for any purpose.

1.  User Responsibilities

    -   It is the Bluetooth user's responsibility to comply with this
    policy.

    -   Bluetooth mode must be turned off when not in use.

    -   PII and/or MailRoute Confidential or Sensitive data must not
    be transmitted or stored on Bluetooth enabled devices.

    -   Bluetooth users must only access MailRoute information
    systems using approved Bluetooth device hardware, software,
    solutions, and connections.

    -   Bluetooth device hardware, software, solutions, and connections that
    do not meet the standards of this policy shall not be authorized for
    deployment.

    -   Bluetooth users must act appropriately to protect information,
    network access, passwords, cryptographic keys, and Bluetooth
    equipment.

    -   Bluetooth users are required to report any misuse, loss, or theft of
    Bluetooth devices or systems immediately to Infosec.

## Policy Compliance

### Compliance Measurement

The Infosec Team will verify compliance to this policy through various
methods, including but not limited to, periodic walk-thrus, video
monitoring, business tool reports, internal and external audits, and
feedback to the policy owner.

## Exceptions

Any exception to the policy must be approved by the Infosec Team in
advance.

## Non-Compliance

An employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

## Related Standards, Policies and Processes

None.

## Definitions and Terms

None.

## Revision History

August 2020 - Initial MailRoute Documentation