# Digital Signature Acceptance Policy

**Last Update Status:** *Updated August 2020*

## Overview

See Purpose.

## Purpose

The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance on when digital
signatures are considered accepted means of validating the identity of a
signer in MailRoute electronic documents and correspondence, and thus a
substitute for traditional "wet" signatures, within the organization.
Because communication has become primarily electronic, the goal is to
reduce confusion about when a digital signature is trusted.

## Scope

This policy applies to all MailRoute employees and affiliates.

This policy applies to all MailRoute employees, contractors, and other
agents conducting MailRoute business with a MailRoute-provided digital
key pair. This policy applies only to intra-organization digitally
signed documents and correspondence and not to electronic materials sent
to or received from non-MailRoute affiliated persons or organizations.

## Policy

A digital signature is an acceptable substitute for a wet signature on
any intra-organization document or correspondence, with the exception of
those noted on the site of the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) on the
organization's intranet: \<CFO's Office URL\>

The CFO's office will maintain an organization-wide list of the types of
documents and correspondence that are not covered by this policy.

Digital signatures must apply to individuals only. Digital signatures
for roles, positions, or titles (e.g. the CFO) are not considered valid.

1.  Responsibilities

    Digital signature acceptance requires specific action on both the part
of the employee signing the document or correspondence (hereafter the
*signer*), and the employee receiving/reading the document or
correspondence (hereafter the *recipient*).

1.  Signer Responsibilities

    1.  Signers must obtain a signing key pair from \<MailRoute
        identity management group\>. This key pair will be generated
        using MailRoute's Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and the public
        key will be signed by the MailRoute's Certificate Authority
        (CA), \<CA Name\>.

    1.  Signers must sign documents and correspondence using software
        approved by MailRoute IT organization.

    1.  Signers must protect their private key and keep it secret.

    1.  If a signer believes that the signer's private key was stolen or
        otherwise compromised, the signer must contact MailRoute
        Identity Management Group immediately to have the signer's
        digital key pair revoked.

3.  Recipient Responsibilities

    1.  Recipients must read documents and correspondence using software
        approved by MailRoute IT department.

    1.  Recipients must verify that the signer's public key was signed
        by the MailRoute's Certificate Authority (CA), \<CA Name\>, by
        viewing the details about the signed key using the software they
        are using to read the document or correspondence.

    1.  If the signer's digital signature does not appear valid, the
        recipient must not trust the source of the document or
        correspondence.

    1.  If a recipient believes that a digital signature has been
        abused, the recipient must report the recipient's concern to
        MailRoute Identity Management Group.

## Policy Compliance

### Compliance Measurement

The Infosec team will verify compliance to this policy through various
methods, including but not limited to, business tool reports, internal
and external audits, and feedback to the policy owner.

## Exceptions

Any exception to the policy must be approved by the Infosec team in
advance.

## Non-Compliance

An employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

## Related Standards, Policies and Processes

None.

# References

Note that these references were used only as guidance in the creation of
this policy template. We highly recommend that you consult with your
organization's legal counsel, since there may be federal, state, or
local regulations to which you must comply. Any other PKI-related
policies your organization has may also be cited here.

American Bar Association (ABA) Digital Signature Guidelines
[[http://www.abanet.org/scitech/ec/isc/dsgfree.html]{.ul}](http://www.abanet.org/scitech/ec/isc/dsgfree.html)

Minnesota State Agency Digital Signature Implementation and Use

<http://mn.gov/oet/policies-and-standards/business/policy-pages/standard_digital_signature.jsp>

Minnesota Electronic Authentication Act
[https://[www.revisor.leg.state.mn.us/statutes/?id=325K&view=chapter](http://www.revisor.leg.state.mn.us/statutes/?id=325K&amp;view=chapter)
-stat.325K.001]{.ul}

City of Albuquerque E-Mail Encryption / Digital Signature Policy

<http://mesa.cabq.gov/policy.nsf/WebApprovedX/4D4D4667D0A7953A87256E7B004F6720?OpenDocument>

West Virginia Code ยง39A-3-2: Acceptance of electronic signature by
governmental entities in satisfaction of signature requirement.
[[http://law.justia.com/westvirginia/codes/39a/wvc39a-3-2.html]{.ul}](http://law.justia.com/westvirginia/codes/39a/wvc39a-3-2.html)

## Definitions and Terms

None.

## Revision History

August 2020 - Initial MailRoute Documentation