# Pandemic Response Planning Policy

**Last Update Status:** *Updated August 2020*

## Overview

This policy is intended for companies that do not meet the definition of
critical infrastructure as defined by the federal government. This type
of organization may be requested by public health officials to close
their offices to non-essential personnel or completely during a
worst-case scenario pandemic to limit the spread of the disease. Many
companies would run out of cash and be forced to go out of business
after several weeks of everyone not working. Therefore, developing a
response plan in advance that addresses who can work remotely, how they
will work and identifies what other issues may be faced will help the
organization survive at a time when most people will be concerned about
themselves and their families.

Disasters typically happen in one geographic area. A hurricane or
earthquake can cause massive damage in one area, yet the worst damage is
usually contained within a few hundred miles. A global pandemic, such as
the 1918 influenza outbreak which infected 1/3 of the world's
population, cannot be dealt with by failing over to a backup data
center. Therefore, additional planning steps for IT architecture,
situational awareness, employee training and other preparations are
required.

## Purpose

This document directs planning, preparation and exercises for pandemic
disease outbreak over and above the normal business continuity and
disaster recovery planning process. The objective is to address the
reality that pandemic events can create personnel and technology issues
outside the scope of the traditional DR/BCP planning process as
potentially 25% or more of the workforce may be unable to come to work
for health or personal reasons.

## Scope

The planning process will include personnel involved in the business
continuity and disaster recovery process, enterprise architects and
senior management of MailRoute. During the implementation of the plan,
all employees and contractors will need to undergo training before and
during a pandemic disease outbreak.

## Policy

MailRoute will authorize, develop and maintain a Pandemic Response Plan
addressing the following areas:

1.  The Pandemic Response Plan leadership will be identified as a small
    team which will oversee the creation and updates of the plan. The
    leadership will also be responsible for developing internal
    expertise on the transmission of diseases and other areas such as
    second wave phenomenon to guide planning and response efforts.
    However, as with any other critical position, the leadership must
    have trained alternates that can execute the plan should the
    leadership become unavailable due to illness.

1.  The creation of a communications plan before and during an outbreak
    that accounts for congested telecommunications services.

1.  An alert system based on monitoring of World Health Organization
    (WHO) and other local sources of information on the risk of a
    pandemic disease outbreak.

1.  A predefined set of emergency polices that will preempt normal
    MailRoute policies for the duration of a declared pandemic. These
    polices are to be organized into different levels of response that
    match the level of business disruption expected from a possible
    pandemic disease outbreak within the community. These policies
    should address all tasks critical to the continuation of the company
    including:

    1.  How people will be paid

    1.  Where they will work -- including staying home with or bringing
        kids to work.

    1.  How they will accomplish their tasks if they cannot get to the
        office

1.  A set of indicators to management that will aid them in selecting an
    appropriate level of response bringing into effect the related
    policies discussed in section 4---for the organization. There
    should be a graduated level of response related to the WHO pandemic
    alert level or other local indicators of a disease outbreak.

1.  An employee training process covering personal protection including:

    1.  Identifying symptoms of exposure

    1.  The concept of disease clusters in day cares, schools or other
        gathering places

    1.  Basic prevention - limiting contact closer than 6 feet, cover
        your cough, hand washing

    1.  When to stay home

    1.  Avoiding travel to areas with high infection rates

1.  A process for the identification of employees with first responders
    or medical personnel in their household. These people, along with
    single parents, have a higher likelihood of unavailability due to
    illness or child care issues.

1.  A process to identify key personnel for each critical business
    function and transition their duties to others in the event they
    become ill.

1.  A list of supplies to be kept on hand or pre-contracted for supply,
    such as face masks, hand sanitizer, fuel, food and water.

1. IT related issues:

    1.  Ensure enterprise architects are including pandemic contingency
        in planning

    1.  Verification of the ability for significantly increased
        telecommuting including bandwidth, VPN concentrator
        capacity/licensing, ability to offer voice over IP and
        laptop/remote desktop availability

    1.  Increased use of virtual meeting tools -- video conference and
        desktop sharing

    1.  Identify what tasks cannot be done remotely

    1.  Plan for how customers will interact with the organization in
        different ways

1. The creation of exercises to test the plan.

1. The process and frequency of plan updates at least annually.

1. Guidance for auditors indicating that any review of the business
    continuity plan or enterprise architecture should assess whether
    they appropriately address the MailRoute Pandemic Response Plan.

## Policy Compliance

### Compliance Measurement

The Infosec team will verify compliance to this policy through various
methods, including but not limited to, periodic walk-thrus, video
monitoring, business tool reports, internal and external audits, and
feedback to the policy owner.

## Exceptions

Any exception to the policy must be approved by the Infosec team in
advance.

## Non-Compliance

An employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

## Related Standards, Policies and Processes

[World Health Organization](http://www.who.int/en/)

## Definitions and Terms

The following definition and terms can be found in the SANS Glossary
located at:

https://www.sans.org/security-resources/glossary-of-terms/

-   Pandemic

## Revision History

August 2020 - Initial MailRoute Documentation